# fitsmbot

"FitSM Bot" is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was
initially generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot].

This README is intended to desribe what the bot does and what external scripts and services it uses.

## FitSM Bot and the FitSM standard

FitSM Bot won't tell you (yet) anything about how to implement it, it's just an expert on the standard itself.
FitSM bot should know everything about the FitSM standard:
  - parts
  - terms
  - processes
  - requirements
    - general
    - process-specific

These are kept in JSON in the `data` directory.
The schema of the data attempts to follow the standard itself.


## The Hubot Slack SDK

For interacting with Slack, see the [docs](https://slackapi.github.io/hubot-slack/)

### Running fitsmbot Locally

You can test your hubot by running the following, however some plugins will not
behave as expected unless the [environment variables](#configuration) they rely
upon have been set.

You can start fitsmbot locally by running:

    % bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output and a prompt:

    [Sat Feb 28 2015 12:38:27 GMT+0000 (GMT)] INFO Using default redis on localhost:6379
    fitsmbot>

Then you can interact with fitsmbot by typing `fitsmbot help`.

    fitsmbot> fitsmbot help
    fitsmbot animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds [snip]
    fitsmbot help - Displays all of the help commands that fitsmbot knows about.
    ...

### Deploying with the Slack adapter

Running the robot locally isn't of much use if you want to deploy it.
Deployment can be done on any Docker-enabled host, with the handy docker-compose file provided: `docker-compose up`
This uses dotenv files for reading the variables, as discussed [below][#configuration] including the slack token for connecting to the Slack API.
Before running with the Slack adator, you need a token, which can be generated after creating the bot in the [Slack apps page](https://api.slack.com/apps) - see also [the Slack Hubot SDK documentation](https://slackapi.github.io/hubot-slack/#getting-a-slack-token)



### Configuration

Hubot requires configuration, with most variables set in the environment.
There are two types of variables:
 - public variables: variables that can be stored in change control.
 - secret variables: variables which are _secret_ and shold not be stored in change control.

Secrets can be set on the command line when 


### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting Guide][scripting-docs].

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

[scripting-docs]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md

### external-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead of
writing it yourself, you can use existing plugins.

Hubot is able to load plugins from third-party `npm` packages. This is the
recommended way to add functionality to your hubot. You can get a list of
available hubot plugins on [npmjs.com][npmjs] or by using `npm search`:

    % npm search hubot-scripts panda
    NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
    hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
    ...


To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Use `npm install --save` to add the package to `package.json` and install it
2. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.


### hubot-scripts

Before hubot plugin packages were adopted, most plugins were held in the
[hubot-scripts][hubot-scripts] package. Some of these plugins have yet to be
migrated to their own packages. They can still be used but the setup is a bit
different.

To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the `hubot-scripts.json` file in this
repo.

[hubot-scripts]: https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts

##  Persistence


## Adapters


## Deployment

